New article (#7)
Akashrine/jbr-11ty: src/posts/what-is-the-real-mvp/2020-07-22-what-is-the-real-mvp.md

---
title: What is the real MVP?
tags: product
image: mvp.jpg

> description: "When you've thought about the problem you want to solve, that your solution is designed, that your idea is validated that your long term strategy is set. Now it's time to develop and launch your product, but what do you launch? | What features would you choose first? Small story about MVP"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "When you've thought about the problem you want to solve, your solution is designed, your idea is validated, and your long term strategy is set. Now it's time to develop and launch your product, but what do you launch? | What features would you choose first? Here's a small story about MVP"
```

---
<p class="lead">

>    It is quite common nowadays, to hear about doing an MVP when you're in the wonderful world of product or in a startup. Used as a keyword to say "we want to go live asap". Unfortunately, MVP is usually badly used or worst badly done. As everyone was using the MVP words without really knowing what was behind it, we came with new fancy acronym: MLP, MMP, RAT, SLC... But in the end, we talk about MVP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It is quite common nowadays, to hear about doing an MVP when you're in the wonderful world of product or in a startup. The term is often used as a keyword to say "we want to go live ASAP". Unfortunately, an MVP is usually badly used or worst badly done. As everyone uses the acronym MVP without really knowing what's behind it, we come up with new fancy acronyms: MLP, MMP, RAT, SLC... But in the end, we're talking about MVP. 
```

Reviewer: Not sure if you wanna say "an MVP" or "a MVP"

</p>

## MVP? What are we talking about?

> Before going further, what is an MVP? MVP is often attached to one of the most important techniques in a lean startup. The minimum viable product is that version of a new product which allows a team to collect the maximum amount of validated learning about customers with the least effort. (Nice one no ?).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before going further, what is an MVP? An MVP is often attached to one of the most important techniques in a lean startup. The minimum viable product is the version of a new product which allows a team to collect the maximum amount of validated learnings about customers with the least effort. (Nice one no ?).
```

<blockquote cite="Marty Cagan">
    I have long defined minimum viable product as the smallest possible product that has three critical characteristics: people choose to use it or buy it; people can figure out how to use it; and we can deliver it when we need it with the resources available – also known as valuable, usable and feasible.<br />
    <cite>Marty Cagan, <a href="https://svpg.com/minimum-viable-product/">Minimum Viable Product</a></cite>
</blockquote>

Now what’s complicated is that even if defining it is quite “easy”, understanding it and doing it is much harder.

> Pro MVP are saying that building the smallest amount will help you find out what features your users really want, and assuring that you’re building only the right ones. Anti-MVP will tell us that a MVP is just an unfinished product that no one will love and that will stay in this state forever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pro-MVPs say that building the smallest amount will help you find out what features your users really want, ensuring that you only build the right ones. Anti-MVPs will tell us that a MVP is just an unfinished product that no one will love and that will stay in this state forever.
```

> As a reminder, MVP is usually about this : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, a MVP is usually about this : 
```

* __Learning__: You're here to validate ideas: What are we trying to learn?

> * __Iterate__: You're MVP will evolve fastly after each learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Iterate__: Your MVP will evolve quickly after each learning
```

* __Viable__: Why is everyone forgetting that the V in MVP is viable. It is nice to be fast, but if it's crap ...

> * __Minimum__: One of the hardest parts, you have to come with the least number of features in order to stay reliable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Minimum__: One of the hardest parts, you have to come up with the least number of features in order to stay reliable. 
```

> MVP is built on a serie of iterations that we call "build-measure-learn". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An MVP is built on a series of iterations that we call "build-measure-learn". 
```

<figure class="extent">
    <img src="mvp-metaphor.jpg" data-zoomable />
    <figcaption>Iterate through MVP</figcaption>
</figure>

{% tweet "1172062628568543233" %}

> __top line__: The misconception about iterative and incremental development. It usually is one of the main reasons for a product to fail. It focuses on the components more than on the problem to be solved. While going closer and closer to the actual user needs. It will last 4 iterations before delivering the actual solution. And before that, your user isn’t provided with a viable solution, nor can he provide feedbacks to help evolve your product. While being a way to do product, and while being agile, you don’t allow helpful feedback from your end-user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__top line__: The misconception about iterative and incremental development. It usually is one of the main reasons for a product to fail. It focuses on the components more than on the problem to be solved. While getting closer and closer to the actual user needs. It will last 4 iterations before delivering the actual solution. And before that, your user isn’t provided with a viable solution, nor can they provide feedback to help your product evolve. While it's a way to do product in an agile way, it doesn't allow helpful feedback from the end-user. 
```

__middle line__: Usually the metaphor stops here by saying: you should do this. Well, this solution is focused on the problem (going from A to B) and provides a chosen solution every iteration. This solution allows you to validate, and invalidate your hypotheses, to quickly develop a prototype or a proof of concept.

> Proof of concept is interesting to demonstrate an idea, a product, a service or to verify feasibility. However, it does not answer the question: “Is this thing valuable for a user”. If you deliver a skateboard, does it solve your user's real need and problem? Not really. Is it valuable, usable, and a feasible solution. No. Every iteration looks like a new product and not an evolution. While this approach allows for user testing, feedback, and refinement of the solution, it doesn’t address the fact that our user needs a __car__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proof of concept is interesting to demonstrate an idea, a product, a service or to verify feasibility. However, it does not answer the question: “Is this thing valuable for a user”. If you deliver a skateboard, does it solve your user's real need and problem? Not really. Is it valuable, usable, and a feasible solution? No. Every iteration looks like a new product and not an evolution. While this approach allows for user testing, feedback, and refinement of the solution, it doesn’t address the fact that our user needs a __car__.
```

__last line__: This is how you do an MVP. From iteration 1 to iteration 4 you meet the needs of your end-user. Each iteration is an evolution of the previous one. The solution is viable, feasible, and usable. More than this, you can “feel” the business model and the strategy behind the product, not just an idea to solve a problem.

## New acronyms

> As people weren’t convinced by the efficiency of this 3 letters (Viable is the hardest one to be understandable), they come with a lot of fancy new acronyms to help redefine what should be an MVP such as :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As people weren’t convinced by the efficiency of these 3 letters (Viable is the hardest one to be understandable), they come up with a lot of fancy new acronyms to help redefine what should be an MVP such as :
```

> __MLP__ (Minimum Lovable Product): The idea is to make your product instantly lovable by people, meaning you’re playing on an emotional level. As opposed to the MVP you're launching your most important features first, not the primordial one. It’s usually used when facing an already competitive environment. And it “usually” comes after your MVP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__MLP__ (Minimum Lovable Product): The idea is to make your product instantly lovable by people, meaning you’re playing on an emotional level. As opposed to the MVP you're launching your most important features first, not the essential one. It’s usually used when facing an already competitive environment. And it “usually” comes after your MVP.
```

primordial is not commonly used unless you talk about scientific topics

> __RAT__ (Riskiest Assumption Test): Test directly your most dangerous assumption. Once again it's about build, mesure and learn but more in this order : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__RAT__ (Riskiest Assumption Test): Directly test your most dangerous assumption. Once again it's about build, measure and learn but more in this order : 
```

* Learn
* Measure
* Build fast

> __SLC__ (Simple, Lovable, Complete): This one’s more subtle. It’s like an MVP but with a strong emphasis on “Simple” opposed as minimum. The minimum variable is often seen as " we want to ship at this date, what do we cut, what features won’t make it". Simple is more about, these features are nice, but can we simplify them. The great thing about Simplicity is that it can be part of the conversation from the very beginning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__SLC__ (Simple, Lovable, Complete): This one’s more subtle. It’s like an MVP but with a strong emphasis on “Simple” opposed as minimum. The minimum viable is often seen as " we want to ship at this date, what do we cut, what features won’t make it". Simple is more about, these features are nice, but can we simplify them. The great thing about simplicity is that it can be part of the conversation from the very beginning.
```

__MMP__ (Minimum marketable product) : To be simple, it's an MVP with more than one iteration. An MVP without the shame of it. 

## The MVP of your RAT is an MLP and an SLC

> Long story short, all of these new acronyms only exist because MVP suffers from its celebrity. MVP is used so much it’s lost its original meaning. It’s mistakenly applied to refer to the first release of a _rudimentary_ product. As a result, the term MVP has ended up becoming much more complex than the quick test it was supposed to be and far too badly done for a released product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long story short, all of these new acronyms only exist because MVP suffers from its celebrity. The term MVP is used so much it’s lost its original meaning. It’s mistakenly applied to refer to the first release of a _rudimentary_ product. As a result, the term MVP has ended up becoming much more complex than the quick test it was supposed to be and far too badly done for a released product.
```

<figure class="extent">
    <img src="mvp-circle.jpg" data-zoomable />
    <figcaption>MVP</figcaption>
</figure>

I’m not saying there are no differences between all of this method I’m just saying that: YES we need to start small somewhere before going full release. It’s about gathering information, test assumptions, test adoption, etc. But where the people are often wrong is that they underestimate the “viability” of their product.

So, instead of searching for the MVP vs SLC vs RAT vs MLP winner, focus on building a great MVP by following the right path. And by the right path, it does not mean by taking shortcuts, but by taking consideration of what is indispensable to make at this point and what should be left for later. MVP is a collection of features necessary to create value for customers. And doing that demand a HUGE effort, which is not below-average.

## So? | What features should I put in my first release?

__This__, is the fundamental question you should spend time on. 3 things make this question hard to answer: 
* We don't know what features our users will love until they get their hand on the actual product (🙀)
* Users want everything, NOW !! 

> * MVP is not something you're doing quite often (a.k.a We kind of suck by not having enough experiences)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MVP is not something you're doing quite often (a.k.a We kind of suck by not having enough experience)
```

> Then you got other outside element making your mvp more difficult to define : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you have other outside elements making your MVP more difficult to define : 
```

* Competitors
* Money
* Time 

> To give echo to my previous article ([It is not about the solution](https://www.julien-brionne.fr/posts/it-is-not-about-the-solution/)), in order to know what features you want to put in your MVP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To echo my previous article ([It is not about the solution](https://www.julien-brionne.fr/posts/it-is-not-about-the-solution/)), in order to know what features you want to put in your MVP you have to be sure on:
```

> You have to be sure on :

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

* What problem do you want to solve?
* Who is having the problem? 
* How big is the problem? 
* Your value statement (Uniquement value proposition) (| What is YOUR answer on THIS problem?)

And more than everything you must know __what your CORE product is__.

It is really important to understand and know what is your CORE product. By doing a must-have/nice to have or any tool you prefer to prioritize features, you should keep the focus on your CORE material, only what brings value to the users by solving their problem.

> Be careful with this “core” logic. It doesn't mean your feature must be stripped-down, you have to keep in mind that every selected feature must be complete, viable, and with a great UX. Be careful with the __minimal__ in MVP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful with this “core” logic. It doesn't mean that your feature must be stripped-down, you have to keep in mind that every selected feature must be complete, viable, and with a great UX. Be careful with the __minimal__ in MVP.
```

To be a _must-have_ feature, it should be a feature that, if not done, could destroy the journey of a user.

<figure class="extent">
    <img src="mvp-rightway.jpg" data-zoomable />
    <figcaption>You do MVP like this</figcaption>
</figure>

## Don't forget the learning part! 

> Main advantages of an mvp are : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Main advantages of an MVP are : 
```

> * __Insights__ : Gather them all !! MVP will provide you a lot of feedbacks from your users and the way they use your product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Insights__ : Gather them all !! An MVP will provide you a lot of feedback from your users and the way they use your product.
```

* __value proposition__ (core product adjustment) : If you're not sure yet of your value proposition, the MVP will help you focus on what's really your core product

> * __shared creation__ : By involving your customers, you can get helps on what to do next, what's the most prioritize features, how their problems is evolving ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __shared creation__ : By involving your customers, you can get help on what to do next, what are the the highest priority features, how their problems evolve ...
```

> * __Evolutions__ : Reduce time to take decision on what to develop and what to delete in terms of features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Evolutions__ : Reduce time to make a decision on what to develop and what to delete in terms of features
```

* __Increase Time to market__ : Well this one's pretty obvious. 

<figure class="extent">
    <img src="iterate-learn.jpg" data-zoomable />
    <figcaption>Iterate to learn</figcaption>
</figure>

> You’re here to get feedback from your customer, so when setting what features should go in the MVP, you should also prepare an analysis plan on what you want to track, what KPIs you’re following to know if you’re going in the right direction or not. It could be as simple as a landing page of your upcoming product and you just measure the number of leads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’re here to get feedback from your customer, so when setting what features should go in the MVP, you should also prepare an analysis plan on what you want to track, what KPIs you’re following to know if you’re going in the right direction or not. It could be as simple as a landing page of your upcoming product and just measuring the number of leads.
```
